Data structures in pass1 assembler ?
Ans :

1) OPTAB
2) SYMTAB
3) LITTAB
4) POOLTAB

4.What are page replacement policies?
Ans :
1) first in first out (FIFO)
2) LRU (least recent used) page replacement
3) Optimal page replacement
	
5.what are cpu scheduling algorithms?
Ans : 
1) premitive sheduling - 
    
In this cpu cycle is allocated to a processes for a limited time.
Arrival time = having value

2) Non premitive scheduling - 
    
Once cpu cycle is allocated to the process, the process holds it to complete its burst time or switches to a waiting time.
	
6.what r memory management techniques?
Ans:
1) Paging & swapping - 

Paging is a function of memory management where os divides each incoming program into pages of equal size.
swapping is a technique of removing a process from the main memory and storing it into secondary memory, and then bringing it back into the main memory for continued execution.

2) segmentation & compaction -

in segmentation , a program data and instructions are divided into blocks called segments. Segment is a logical entity.
Compaction is a technique to collect all the free memory present in form of fragments into one large chunk of free memory,
                

9.what thrashing?
Ans: 
Thrashing is when the page fault and swapping happens very frequently at a higher rate, and then the operating system has to spend more time swapping these pages. This state in the operating system is known as thrashing. Because of thrashing, the CPU utilization is going to be reduced or negligible.

10.what is semaphore, critical section problem, dining philosopher problem?
Ans: 
Semaphore : Semaphore is an integer variable which is used as a signal to allow or not allow a process to access the critical section of the code or certain other resources. There are two types of semaphores: Binary - take on values 0 or 1. Counting - take on any integer value.

Critical section problem : Critical Section is the part of a program which tries to access shared resources. The critical section problem is to make sure that only one process should be in a critical section at a time.

Dining philosopher problem : The dining philosopher's problem is the classical problem of synchronization which says that Five philosophers are sitting around a circular table and their job is to think and eat alternatively. A bowl of noodles is placed at the center of the table along with five chopsticks for each of the philosophers. To eat a philosopher needs both their right and a left chopstick. A philosopher can only eat if both immediate left and right chopsticks of the philosopher is available. In case if both immediate left and right chopsticks of the philosopher are not available then the philosopher puts down their (either left or right) chopstick and starts thinking again.



11. What are cpu schedulars?
Ans: CPU scheduler selects a process among the processes that are ready to execute and allocates CPU to one of them. 

12. What is need of scheduling algorithms?
Ans: The main task of CPU scheduling is to make sure that whenever the CPU remains idle, the OS at least select one of the processes available in the ready queue for execution.

13. What r components or elements of system programming?

1) Loader : Used to Loading a program means reading contents of executable file and loading program in the memory and then carryout tasks and prepare them for running, as the loading is complete the operating system starts the program execution by passing control to program code.

2) Assembler : An assembler is used to convert assembly language program into machine level language. Assembler act as a compiler of assembly language program.
    
3) Compiler : A Compiler is program used to convert high level programming language to low level programming language. 

Further compiler is divided into two types:-

1) Cross Compiler : A cross compiler is a compiler which is capable of generating an executable code for other platform where it resides on another platform.

2) Source to Source Compiler : A source to source compiler accepts an input written in one programming language and produces output for same written in another language.

4) Macro : A macro is a single line abbreviation for group of statements or block of code. Macro allows programmer to write the short part of the program. A macro can be expanded into no. of instructions.

5) Interpreter : In System Programming interpreter is a program which directly executes the program without compiling it to the machine language.



14. What is difference between system programming and application programming?
Ans: The system programs are used to program the operating system software. While application programs provide software that is used directly by the user, system programs provide software that are used by other systems such as SaaS applications, computational science applications etc.

15. What is os?
Ans: An operating system (OS) is the program that, after being initially loaded into the computer by a boot program, manages all of the other application programs in a computer. 

16. What r different types of os?
Ans:  
Batch OS : A batch operating system is a type of operating system that allows multiple users to use it at the same time, without direct communication between them.  
Distributed OS : A distributed operating system is system software over a collection of independent software, networked, communicating, and physically separate computational nodes. 
Multitasking OS : Multitasking, in an operating system, is allowing a user to perform more than one computer task (such as the operation of an application program) at a time.
Network OS :  network operating system (NOS) is designed primarily to support workstations, personal computers and older terminals that are connected on a local area network (LAN).
Real-OS : A real-time operating system (RTOS) is an OS that guarantees real-time applications a certain capability within a specified deadline.
Mobile OS : A mobile operating system (OS) is software that allows smartphones, tablet PCs (personal computers) and other devices to run applications and programs.

17. What is iot?
Ans: The Internet of Things (IoT) describes the network of physical objects that are embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies to exchange data with other devices over the internet.

18. What r application of iot?
Ans: 

Smart Homes.
Smart City.
Self-driven Cars.
IoT Retail Shops.
Farming.
Wearables.
Smart Grids.
Industrial Internet.

19.what is difference between lru and optimal page replacement?

LRU :

LRU stands for the Least Recently Used page replacement algorithm.
It removes the page that has not been utilized in the memory for the longest period of time.
It keeps track of page usage in the memory over a short time period.	

LFU :

LFU stands for the Least Frequently Used page replacement algorithm.
It replaces the least frequently used pages.
In the LFU page replacement algorithm, the page with the least visits in a given period of time is removed.



20. What is page hit and page Miss ratio?
Ans: 
page hit : A hit ratio is a calculation of cache hits, and comparing them with how many total content requests were received. 
Pasge miss : A miss ratio is the flip side of this where the cache misses are calculated and compared with the total number of content requests that were received.

21. How to calculate turn around time?
Ans :  Turnaround time = Finish time - Arrival time

22. how to calculate waiting Time ?
Ans :  Waiting time = Turnaround time - Burst time